# Web Application Security WG

[Wednesday, March 15th: 16:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230315T1600) (09:00 California, 12:00 Boston, 16:00 London, 17:00 Berlin)

## Attendees  

* You?
* John Wilander, Apple WebKit
* Abdulrahman Alqabandi (Microsoft)
* Philippe Le Hegaret, W3C
* Tom Van Goethem, Google
* Artur Janc, Google
* Bartosz Niemczura (Meta)
* Craig Francis (just observing)
* Serena Chen, Google
* Eric Portis, Cloudinary
* Dan Veditz, Mozilla
* Jonathan Hao, Google
* David Dworken, Google
* Ari Chivukula, Google
* Jun Kokatsu, Google
* Giorgio Maone
* Edward Qiu, Meta

_[Minutes from the 2023-01-18 meeting](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/main/meetings/2023/2023-01-18-minutes.md)_

### Draft Agenda

*   Deprecations and defaults:
    *    @johnwilander's linked-on-or-after idea
    *    @tomvangoethem wrote up a [`Progressive-Security` header](https://secweb.work/presentations/2022/Goethem-deprecation.pdf) in a SecWeb presentation last year; see also [the accommodating paper](https://secweb.work/papers/2022/goethem2022progressive.pdf).
    *    @mikewest wrote up a [`Baseline` header](https://github.com/mikewest/baseline-header).
*   @heisenburger will [report](https://www.w3.org/Privacy/permissions-ws-2022/report) on the [Workshop on Permissions](https://www.w3.org/Privacy/permissions-ws-2022/)
*  @shhnjk, @ddworken wants to talk through https://github.com/w3c/FileAPI/issues/192.

## Minutes 

### Linked-on-or-after

wilander: Started talking about this at TPAC last year. I've had a long conversation with WebKit folks and they're not really in support of this idea. But we should talk about it and about their feedback.

...: Linked-on-or-after: Any platform will eventually have legacy APIs, and removal is painful for both developers and users. "Native" platforms deal with this through "linked-on-or-after" deprecations. Versioning of the platform's SDK. When you as a developer want to use the latest and greatest SDK, you'll link against the new SDK, which might have removed some bad API at the same time it added a new API. This drives progress, as developers who wish to use the new thing need to stop using the old thing.

...: No build step on the web. No way to tell developers "Hey, your thing is broken." Removing APIs is, therefore, hard. Good place to build applications, but long tail of bad APIs (`document.domain`, appcache, `window.name`, sync XHR, `document.cookie`, etc) we struggle to remove. Could we have something similar to linked-on-or-after for the web?

...: Imagine we add some new fancy things, and browsers agree that we're going to tie those to deprecation of bad things. If sites use one of the new things, they can't use the old things. Year after year, we'd progress. Shifting from "level" to "level". New APIs are carrots.

...: Feedback from WebKit, pointing to links below. Back then, this was HTML5 as this new version of the web. You added a notice to your markup saying you're in on HTML5, could we use that to remove things? Do we then have an HTML6? This idea differs from LOOA, insofar as not _everything_ new is tied to deprecations, but some nice carrots. Most things would remain available. Still, folks didn't see it as meaningfully different from HTML5/6/7/etc. Need to continue down tough path of graceful degregation and outreach. That said, we recognize the problem, and if there's a non-versioned way of approaching it, we should chat.

* Degrade Gracefully <https://www.w3.org/TR/html-design-principles/#degrade-gracefully>

* "Version information (was Re: HTML5 vs HTML6)", April 2007. <https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-html/2007Apr/0279.html>

* "Support Existing Content (was: Proposed Design Principles review)", April 2007. <https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-html/2007Apr/1570.html>

* "Re: Support Existing Content", April 2007. <https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-html/2007Apr/1590.html>

* "Re: Support Existing Content", April 2007. <https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-html/2007Apr/1606.html>

mkwst: Secure contexts?

wilander: Generally we don't like it when there's no natural connection between the restriction and feature. New CSS feature only in secure contexts? But when there is a security implication, geolocation for example, we're all for it.

mkwst: `[CrossOriginIsolated]` as well.

wilander: Sure, also room to talk about "secure context". Might be more plausible than a leveling system.

plh: No version in HTML. HTML5 was marketing. Parser constraints were the only distinction.

wilander: There was a proposal at the time for the opening tag to say `html5`.

plh: That died quickly.

wilander: Right. That's what folks in WebKit were objecting to.

plh: Secure contexts was nice as a way to push for HTTPS. XHR and `fetch()` for example: no way to predict when one is used or the other. So you run the code, and hit one of these APIs at some point, which breaks the other. That would be a piecemeal decision for each spec. Does this affect third-party assets as well? One use breaks others.

dveditz: Agent clustering required deprecating `document.domain`.

### [Progressive-Security](https://secweb.work/presentations/2022/Goethem-deprecation.pdf) 

tom: Features deprecated for years which didn't seem like a good state. Analyzing how the deprecation process was working: typically goes through stages. Difficult to know when features are deprecated in different browsers. Feature works in one place but not another. Tricky to know the impact that deprecation/removal will have on a website. My proposal then was to mimic the current deprecation process, but to streamline it. Version system wherein features would be deprecated or removed, but possible to opt-into certain removed features, or opt-out of security features related to the new version.

...: Example: In one version, Appcache in non-secure contexts would be deprecated, then in a later version it would be deprecated in secure contexts. Deprecation would be surfaced in devtools. Then non-secure appcache would be "unsupported" (disabled by default, but opt-in possible), then eventually it would be removed entirely in those contexts. Browser vendors would agree on a date. v1 in March, v2 in April, and so on. Gradual progression through versions, and therefore through deprecations. Easier for developers to know when things are deprecated and removed. Might be possible to opt-into using a newer version, so you can see impact on your site before browsers force the issue.

plh: Deprecating stuff in non-secure contexts should only be done for security reasons. I'd hope the web would still work in 20 years to the extent possible. Unless something is really broken, we shouldn't deactivate it. Would rather render it unusable if you're using new features.

dveditz: That's the key to the proposal. Other sites wouldn't send this header, so wouldn't participate in deprecations.

tom: Main idea was for browsers to agree on removals consistently. Focused on things with security impacts. Complexity of arranging scheduled deprecations. Doing that for every deprecation would be too much overhead.

dveditz: Right. So browsers would need to agree on the feature labels for opting-in or opting-out.

John: who will take over making notes? (It's me, Artur!) Trend where modern websites pull ahead on security (CSP, etc.) and there's a long tail of sites that don't use security features. How can we put more focus on improving the state of the long tail that doesn't have anything, rather than give more tools to large sites?
Linked-on-or-after: browsers will have to be tied to a certain level; will they agree? Has it happened with Flash, etc? Everyone has to be on board.

tom: Long tail: mechanism I'd imagined is that security bundles would progress over time. Default version for security in the current browser would be 5, and a few months later it would be 6. Even those sites that aren't regularly updated would benefit from this.

...: Agreement between vendors is tricky. Might be easier if there's a mechanism that we could agree upon. Lack of a place to agree might deter agreement. Without agreement, it's hard for vendors to deprecate, as things still work elsewhere. Possiblity we could find a way to agree.

### [`Baseline` header](https://github.com/mikewest/baseline-header)

_Punted to next time_.

### Permissions Workshop summary
[report](https://www.w3.org/Privacy/permissions-ws-2022/report) on the [Workshop on Permissions](https://www.w3.org/Privacy/permissions-ws-2022/)

serena: UXD on Chrome. Permissions workshop last December in Munich. 2 days of discussions. First day was planned sessions with discussions led by participants. Second day was breakout sessions. The report and raw minutes are available (https://www.w3.org/Privacy/permissions-ws-2022/report and https://docs.google.com/document/d/1chQa2ab_b3gPkk58sFr5cqLVgsdWviLgZl6b9oM3wQU/edit#heading=h.5wqvtwjr07z)

...: We talked a lot about the user experience side of things. In general there was a desire to suggest flows for permissions. Status quo is to leave UX decisions to implementers. But practically we all use the same UX anyway.

...: Interest in non-prompt permission UIs. Contextual, embedded in the user flow, allow the user to trigger the permission moment rather than the website owner deciding when to ask. Compelling, as we see permissions requests on page load when users don't have context to make decisions.

...: Looking at signals that might alter what kind of UI we surface and when we surface. Significant interest in the idea of some kind of permission element of some kind, something that's triggered in the web content area so folks have more context, rather than prompt UI that's very separate. Led to discussion around line-of-death, user research shows folks don't understand it, but still important to make clear what's browser UI what's site UI.

...: Good discussion around specific APIs vs more general capabilities. More purposeful APIs better for security and privacy, can limit data flows. Fits specific use cases. On the other hand, general capabilities allow more innovation on the web, which is exciting. Interesting tension there.

...: Accessibility discussion around earcons. Noticable, unique, sound signals as usage indicators.

...: Very broad!

wilander: In working on Storage Access API, allowing cross-site iframe to have access to first-party cookies, discussion around activation signals: tap in iframe, is that a signal we can rely on? We have that in iframe sandbox: `allow-...-on-user-activation`. Might be risky to rely on this signal, but activation seems interesting. User is interested in this content, might be a good signal to ask for something.

serena: More generally, we talked about users pulling rather than developer pushing the permission prompt. Element idea: we could embed something in the web content area, user activates that, then browser prompts.

wilander: Should the browser dim certain content that can't work unless the user is given certain permissions. Map widget, doesn't make sense without location, browser could dim it, and a tap in that area might help. "This piece of the page is not working."

serena: Interesting idea! Preview of what the widget could do.

wilander: Right, social media widgets too. Comments.

serena: Seems worth exploring!

abdul: Line-of-death. Usually those UIs are attached to some element in the page. Autofill. Displaying something in the browser UI fills in the gap the line-of-death leaves, autofill crosses that line. Showing an icon whenever browser UI breaks that line. This would be nice to add, we don't do it yet.


### Adding `crossOrigin` to Blob

Github [issue 192](https://github.com/w3c/FileAPI/issues/192)
[Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/15c6geijO3kxg0DOxuYuB-8ys7lH7AD-64u_LtePzxQY/edit?usp=sharing)

ddworken: Issues with `blob:` URLs. Rendering untrusted content in a secure way. Running through the slides above.

abdul: Curious about setting headers. `<meta>` vs header responses?

ddworken: possible to set CSP, but not possible to set all headers via `<meta>`. `Content-Disposition`.

mkwst: Headers allow a priori decisions about resources before commiting a document.

dveditz: I like the proposal conceptually.

### Next call, April 19th

We'll plan it in https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/issues/620.
